## Overview

In F-Mesh, the data exchanged between components is represented as **signals** — flexible units of information that can carry any type of payload. Signals serve as the foundation for communication within the mesh, enabling the dynamic flow of data between components. Each signal encapsulates exactly one piece of data, referred to as its **payload**.

To explore the full capabilities of signals, refer to the [signal package API](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/hovsep/fmesh/signal).

## Payload

The payload of a signal can be any valid Go data type, offering immense flexibility. This includes primitive types like integers and strings, complex types like structs and maps, or even nil.

It’s important to note that **every signal in F-Mesh always has a payload**, even if that payload is nil. There is no concept of an "empty" signal, ensuring consistency in data handling across the mesh.

Example of creating a simple signal:

```go
mySignal := signal.New("example payload") // A signal with a string payload
```

## Signal Groups

While individual signals are useful for most cases, there are scenarios where working with a **group of signals** simplifies the design. A signal group aggregates multiple signals, each potentially carrying a different type of payload.

This flexibility allows components to process diverse datasets in a unified manner. For instance, you could group signals with an integer, a **nil**, a slice, and a map payload, and handle them collectively.

## Creating a Signal Group

Here’s an example of creating a signal group with mixed payload types:

```go
mySignals := signal.NewGroup(1, nil, 3, []int{4, 5, 6}, map[byte]byte{7: 8}) // Group of 5 signals
```

In this example the group contains five signals with the following payloads:
1. An integer (1)
2. A nil payload
3. Another integer (3)
4. A slice of integers ([]int{4, 5, 6})
5. A map of byte-to-byte values (map[byte]byte{7: 8})

This versatility makes signal groups a powerful tool for managing complex data flows in F-Mesh.